# Electrochemical-Platform

Electrochemistry is one of the most potent areas to be explored for healthcare products development. Most of the times researchers use standard but sophisticated electrochemical bench-top equipment which are imported and very expensive. Hence, we identified that there is a need to develop an electrochemical platform technology to cater the needs of the electrochemical researchers and electrochemical device developers in the country which is versatile, light weight and portable.

The electrochemical platform technology developed by us provides for programmability in the system to tune the system to a specific end use. The platform is a generic electrochemical technology which can lend itself for optimized device development with IoT provision which helps in enabling powerful graphic user interfaces available on PC’s, Laptops and Mobile platforms. IOT enables fast computation, large data storage, ease of documentation, data transmission and presentation of results with the above platforms.

The embedded hardware has the capability to generate the various input waveforms. The measured output is converted to digital data and sent to a web server via a WIFI module by following a standard communication protocol, where it can be viewed and analyzed graphically. Using a desktop GUI developed by us, the experiment to run can be selected. Once an experiment is selected, various parameters required for that selected experiment can be entered in the GUI. The electrochemical platform hardware has an ESP32 module to receive the parameters set from the desktop GUI app. Once these parameters are received, the DAC on the hardware circuit generates the required waveforms and is given as input to the electrochemical cell. The output current and voltages are converted from their analog values, back to digital, using an ADC on the hardware. The ESP32 sends these ADC values to the desktop app to plot the output waveforms. 
